hello I warrior with the garden ears and
the day I'm in Brooklyn actually right
by Red Hook terminal not the place when
you think about a lot of gardens but
people in cities want to grow food
flowers and herbs just like everyone
else and that's why community gardens
are so popular let's go check out what
hey are you doing I'm lawyer hey William
when he was breathing nice to meet you
actually we did meet about two years ago
you came to New York to the green thumb
grow together wide and I told you that
you had to do a piece of that rainwater
harvesting and you're here so tell them
about your sister Linney we helped the
gardens to conserve water and a great
way to do that is to collect rainwater
so we've attached piping to the roof
that's right behind us here right and
those pipes funnel the water into four
barrels right down here that are
connected together I see how you have
them talk to you have each of the
barrels kind of tucked towards the back
of the fence here we came up with this
this plan here to use these for smaller
recycled olive barrels so your
repurposed into we're repurposing is all
right and then right over here is the
spigot they can drain it right them over
there what was cool about your system is
you using gravity so that there is no
power no electricity had me you try to
bring in like a generator or anything
really all you do is that gravity supply
the force to get the water out the
spigot we try to do like no moving parts
the only moving part is the spigot that
valve it and you can bet so that that's
just that's a half hours there's a
little bit of maintenance that has to be
done you've gotta turn the system on in
the spring and turn it off in the fall
real simple basic maintenance we have
somewhere between five and six hundred
gardens in the city we have about 90 of
them in New York City community gardens
let me turn it off okay
Vinnie I love holidays divide this up so
you would tell me this is two plots we
have a little bit of a space problem
here we don't have a lot of area we can
give people 10 by 20 plus write a new
garden gardener that comes in we'll get
a half a plot to start with you know
sometimes people are very gung-ho at the
beginning of the season in there and
then summertime hits some time hits and
may not follow through but people who do
follow through you'll know that they're
really serious and dedicated and then
maybe they'll get a larger area giving
them a trial run first yes let him get a
chance to go through it and if they make
it through all the feet and the bugs of
summer and starting to fall in love with
it right you know you gotta dedicate a
garden hope he knew you after you they
passed boot camp they're ready foot to
be in the gardening on here community
garden boot kev i like i like that i
think this is also cool i was looking
over it how people were putting together
they got their trellises to give them a
little vertical space because if you
don't have a lot of ground space you got
to figure another strategy and so looks
like they have built in some trellises
and put in some cages so they can get
some of their squash and things growing
up yes and and people will use anything
as a planter as you as you can see
they're using old milk containers and
juice containers its container here yeah
well I think this is this is the epitome
of sustainability to do something like
this where you will you reuse a product
that was going to go into the lab here
so to be able to figure a way to keep
this and use this container to grow in
that's fabulous it's very hard to
quantify how much the gardens really
saved but there's a lot that's going on
here in terms of saving water from you
know saving energy and saving space all
that stuff and then how about also you
know in a city safe insanity yeah I mean
just just to be able to come to a place
that's peaceful something this community
driven a place where you feel not only
secure but you feel we've surrounded by
life yes
so that it's an oasis of a little bit of
peacefulness in an otherwise bustling
busy city okay great let's go look at
some other stuff so Lenny I love the
ornamental aspect too we got guard nazir
who seem to love flowers as much as food
if we're gardening for the soul as well
as for the body here and ran we have
some amazing horticulturalists in these
community gardens you have horticulture
that's just hide me your neighborhood
they're all ready to come out to the
guys it's nice to see that to see the
color in with a lot of the vegetables
yes absolutely well that's cool let's
look over there
well you guys have herbs everywhere but
this seems to be like the central
location for them well and this is the
time when all three of these major herbs
that you see right here are flowering
the lavender the sage and muru so it
really makes a nice combination now
people are familiar of course with sage
and lavender but I've never seen a rue
this big yeah it grows very well here in
New York City in fact there's a little
bit of magic attached to the root plant
in the Puerto Rican culture they think
it's more powerful as an herb as an
additional when you steal a piece of it
to use it properly or your cure really
yeah well I've got a guate berry that
makes me part toward a rican rights oh
hey let me just grab one tuck this in my
pocket oh hey you're safe for the day
faced with ternoon I appreciate you